tests: update smoke testing (#1011)
nextcloud/integration_openproject: docs/testing/smoke_testing.md

Reviewer: I think it would be good to mention realm-name example as opnc

Reviewer: should we mention to check `I have a discovery endpoint URL` as `I don't have this information` is checked by default and it might be confusing where to put discovery endpoint

Reviewer: we are following the sequential actions , so do we need to tell to complete those sequential steps?

Reviewer: as an admin go to

Reviewer: i think we should also add a storage in the project settings -> files in later step

Reviewer: what about going to the nextcloud, navigate to `Administration settings> OpenProject `, then put openproject url, select oauth (selected by default) first before copying the credentials

Reviewer: The topic is for oauth and it implicitly suggest to choose oauth, but is it better to explicitly mention oauth (selected by default) ?

Reviewer: in both nextcloud and openproject

Reviewer: login as created user and from the settings -> connect...

Author: Why is it needed?

Reviewer: this action is done by admin, its confusing as in the A2 section, created user is logged in, and this A3 section requires to be logged in as an admin

Reviewer: Select any project

Author: what is wrong here i don't understand?

Reviewer: its good to mention in openproject and as an admin

Reviewer: we have already created user created in above steps

Author: removed it

Reviewer: we can click on the respective ID rather than double click as double clicking around the text area selects the text which is annoying

Reviewer: In nextcloud, not in openproject

Reviewer: in openproject

Reviewer: in openproject

Reviewer: rather than saying open the form, search for work package -> create and link a new work package , in nextcloud

Reviewer: these names `OIDC Identity Provider` and `OpenID Connect user backend` would be helpful

Reviewer: also uncheck project folder (automatically managed folder).

Reviewer: also add OpenProject host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] In **nextcloud**, as an admin go to `Administration > OpenID Connect`.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Set `OpenProject client ID *` as `openproject`
```

Reviewer: better to add below step first:
In nextcloud, go to `customize` -> enable `OpenProject`  to view notifications

Author: done 👍🏻

Reviewer: could you please merge these steps into a single step?

Author: done ✅

- [ ] Re-run the script again after it is already setup (Should not give any error).

## Section B: Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider

> **Note**: `OpenProject` must be an Enterprise edition to use SSO setup.

### B.1: Nextcloud Hub as IDP

#### B.1.1. Configure Nextcloud

- [ ] In `Nextcloud`, log in as a user `admin`.
- [ ] Install and enable `OIDC Identity Provider`(`oidc`) and `OpenID Connect user backend`(`user_oidc`) apps.
- [ ] Create a new user ( with username, display name, password, and email).
- [ ] Check whether `oidc_provider_bearer_validation` exists and is set to `true` by running `php occ config:list`.
  > **Note:** This requires the OIDC Identity Provider app >= v1.4.0. Access tokens and JWT tokens can be validated.
  - [ ] If the setting does not exist or is set to `false`, run:
    - `php occ config:system:set user_oidc --type boolean --value="true" oidc_provider_bearer_validation`
- [ ] Go to `Administration > OpenID Connect` and enable `store login tokens` option.
- [ ] Go to `Administration > OpenID Connect Provider`.
  - Click the button `+ Add client`.
  - Add a client name (not an identifier) such as `openproject`.

>   - Add a redirect URL: `<openproject_host>/auth/oidc-<idp_displayname_from_openproject>/callback`. Use the same value as the OpenProject `Display name` from `B.1.2` (for example, `nextcloud`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add a redirect URL: `<openproject_host>/auth/oidc- <idp_displayname_from_openproject>/callback`. 
  > **Note:** Use the same value as the custom OpenID provider `Display name` in OpenProject from `B.1.2` (for example, `nextcloud`) for <idp_displayname_from_openproject>.
```

- [ ] Uncheck `project folder (automatically managed folder)`.

#### B.1.4. Login to OpenProject using Nextcloud user

- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.1](#B11-Configure-Nextcloud).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.2](#b12-add-nextcloud-idp-in-openproject-without-project-folder-setup).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.3](#b13-setup-integration-without-project-folder-setup).
- [ ] In `nextcloud`, login as nextcloud-created user.
- [ ] In `openproject`, use the SSO button on the login page to sign in as the nextcloud-created user.
- [ ] Login should be successful in `openproject`.
- [ ] The OpenProject username should match the Nextcloud-created user’s name.

#### B.1.5. Verify Connection of Nextcloud user with OpenProject

- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.1](#B11-Configure-Nextcloud).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.2](#b12-add-nextcloud-idp-in-openproject-without-project-folder-setup).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.3](#b13-setup-integration-without-project-folder-setup).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.4](#b14-login-to-openProject-using-nextcloud-user).
- [ ] In nextcloud, login as nextcloud-created user.
- [ ] Navigate to `Settings > OpenProject`.

> - [ ] Should show user is connected as an OpenProject user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Should show user is connected as an OpenProject user.

#### B.1.6. Add File storage (Nextcloud) to an OpenProject project

- [ ] In Openproject, as a user admin, select any OpenProject Project (for example, Demo Project) in OpenProject.
- [ ] Navigate to Project settings > Files of Demo Project.
- [ ] Add a file storage name Nextcloud( choose No specific Folder option ) for Demo Project.
- [ ]  Add the nextcloud-created user as the member of Demo Project project 
```

> #### B.1.6. Complete the common smoke tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### B.1.7. Complete the common smoke tests
```

- [ ] Navigate to `Project settings > Files` of a project (for example, `Demo Project`) and add `Nextcloud` as a file storage.
- [ ] In `OpenProject`, login as keycloak-created user.
- [ ] In `OpenProject`, log out, then log in as a user `admin`.
- [ ] As an `OpenProject` admin, add keycloak-created user as a member in one of the project (for example, `Demo Project`).

#### B.2.4. Setup integration (token exchange disabled) in Nextcloud

- [ ] As a user `admin`, go to `Administration > OpenProject`.
- [ ] Add OpenProject host as `<openproject_host>`.
- [ ] Under `Authentication Method`, select `Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider`.
- [ ] In `Authentication settings`, select `provider Type` as `Keycloak`.
- [ ] Disable `token exchange` as well as `Automatically managed folders`.

#### B.2.5. Verify Connection in nextcloud

- [ ] First, complete steps **B.2.1** to **B.2.4**.
- [ ] In nextcloud, login as keycloak-created user.
- [ ] Navigate to `Settings > OpenProject`.
- [ ] Should show user is connected as an OpenProject user.

#### B.2.6. Complete the common smoke tests

- [ ] Complete [smoke tests 1-7](#common-smoke-test-steps).

> #### B.2.7. Setup integration (token exchange enabled)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### B.2.7. Setup integration (token exchange enabled) in Nextcloud
```

- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.2.1](#b21-configure-keycloak).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.2.2](#b22-configure-nextcloud).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.2.3](#b23-Add-Keycloak-idp-in-openoroject).
- [ ] As a user `admin` go to `Administration > OpenProject` in nextcloud.
- [ ] Under `Authentication Method`, select `Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider`.
- [ ] In `Authentication settings`, select `provider Type` as `Keycloak`.
- [ ] Enable `token exchange`.

> - [ ] Set `OpenProject client ID *` as `openproject`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Set `OpenProject client ID *` to `openproject`.
```

- [ ] In `nextcloud`, login as nextcloud-created user.
- [ ] In `openproject`, use the SSO button on the login page to sign in as the nextcloud-created user.
- [ ] Login should be successful in `openproject`.
- [ ] The OpenProject username should match the Nextcloud-created user’s name.

#### B.1.5. Verify Connection of Nextcloud user with OpenProject

- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.1](#B11-Configure-Nextcloud).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.2](#b12-add-nextcloud-idp-in-openproject-without-project-folder-setup).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.3](#b13-setup-integration-without-project-folder-setup).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.4](#b14-login-to-openProject-using-nextcloud-user).
- [ ] In nextcloud, login as nextcloud-created user.
- [ ] Navigate to `Settings > OpenProject`.
- [ ] Should show user is connected as an OpenProject user.

#### B.1.6. Add File storage (Nextcloud) to an OpenProject project
- [ ] In Openproject, as a user admin, select any OpenProject Project (for example, Demo Project) in OpenProject.
- [ ] Navigate to Project settings > Files of Demo Project.
- [ ] Add a file storage name Nextcloud( choose No specific Folder option ) for Demo Project.

> - [ ] Add the nextcloud-created user as the member of Demo Project project 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Add the nextcloud-created user as the member of Demo Project project.
```

    - `php occ config:system:set user_oidc --type boolean --value="true" oidc_provider_bearer_validation`
- [ ]  Go to `Administration > OpenID Connect` and enable `store login tokens` option.
- [ ] Go to `Administration > OpenID Connect Provider`.
  - Click the button `+ Add client`.
  - Add a client name (not an identifier) such as `openproject`.
  - Add a redirect URL: `<openproject_host>/auth/oidc-<idp_displayname_from_openproject>/callback`.
  - Choose Signing Algorithm option as `RS256`.
  - Choose Client Type as `Confidential` and click on `Add` button.
  - After clicking `add` button, click on the recently created client.
  - Choose `Access Token Type` as `JWT Access Token (RFC9068)` and click on `save` button.
  - Go to `settings` section.
  - Set `Refresh Token Expire Time` to `Never`.
  - Save.
  - Copy the Client ID and Client secret (you will need these later in OpenProject and integration_openproject).

####  B.1.2. Add Nextcloud IDP in OpenProject (Without project folder setup)
- [ ] In `OpenProject`, log in as a user `admin`.
- [ ] Go to `Administration > Authentication > OpenID providers`.
- [ ] Add a new custom OpenID provider:

>   - Display name: `nextcloud` (use this name as redirect URL in Nextcloud: <idp_displayname_from_openproject>)

Reviewer: could you please add some explanation regarding what does <idp_displayname_from_openproject> mean?

Author: added ✅

## Section A: Two-Way OAuth 2.0 Authorization Code Flow

### A1. Oauth configuration
- [ ] Keep two browser tabs open: one for `OpenProject` and one for `Nextcloud`.

> - [ ] In `OpenProject`, navigate to `Administration > Files` and add a new `Nextcloud` storage:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] In `OpenProject`, as an `admin` navigate to `Administration > Files` and add a new `Nextcloud` storage:
```

>   - Add name to `Nextcloud` and host to `<openproject_host>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add name to `Nextcloud` and host to `<nextcloud_host>`.
```

  - Select `Two-way OAuth 2.0 authorization code flow` as the authentication method.
  - Click `Save and Continue` — note the generated `OpenProject OAuth Client ID` and `Client Secret`.

> - [ ] In `Nextcloud`, navigate to `Administration Settings > OpenProject`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] In `Nextcloud`, as an `admin` navigate to `Administration Settings > OpenProject`:
```

### A3. Add File storage (Nextcloud) to an OpenProject project
- [ ] Complete step [Test No A1](#a1-oauth-configuration).
- [ ] As a user `admin`, select an `OpenProject` Project (for example, `Demo Project`) in `OpenProject`.
- [ ] Navigate to `Project settings > Files` of `Demo Project`.
- [ ] Add a file storage name `Nextcloud`( choose `No specific Folder` option ) for `Demo Project`.

### A4. Connect OpenProject with Nextcloud
- [ ] Complete step [Test No A1](#a1-oauth-configuration).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No A3](#A3-Add-File-storage-Nextcloud-to-an-OpenProject-project).
- [ ] As a user `admin`, navigate to `Demo Project > Work Packages` and open any work package by clicking its ID.
- [ ] Navigate to `Files` tab, and login to `Nextcloud`.
- [ ] `OpenProject` admin is connected to `Nextcloud` as a `Nextcloud` admin.
- [ ] Add the created `OpenProject` user as the member of `Demo Project` project (admin can add members to a project).

> - [ ] Try to connect the created `OpenProject` user as created `Nextcloud` user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Login as created user in both openproject and nextcloud
- [ ] Try to connect the created `OpenProject` user as created `Nextcloud` user.
```

### A3. Add File storage (Nextcloud) to an OpenProject project
- [ ] Complete step [Test No A1](#a1-oauth-configuration).
- [ ] As a user `admin`, select any `OpenProject` Project (for example, `Demo Project`) in `OpenProject`.
- [ ] Navigate to `Project settings > Files` of `Demo Project`.
- [ ] Add a file storage name `Nextcloud`( choose `No specific Folder` option ) for `Demo Project`.

### A4. Connect OpenProject with Nextcloud
- [ ] Complete step [Test No A1](#a1-oauth-configuration).

> - [ ] Complete step [Test No A3](#A3-Add-File-storage-Nextcloud-to-an-OpenProject-project).

Author: changes to

```
 - [ ] Complete step [Test No A3](#a3-add-file-storage-nextcloud-to-an-openproject-project).
```

> - [ ] Try to connect the created `OpenProject` user as created `Nextcloud` user.

Reviewer: this action is done by created user, so we need to login as created user in both openproject and nextcloud first

Author: The reader will understand that logging in is required to perform this test. So, I think it is clear

Reviewer: would be good to clarify we have to go to the nextcloud as an openproject user -> settings -> openproject -> connect to openproject (we need to be logged in as created user in openproject too)

## Section B: Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider

> **Note**: `OpenProject` must be an Enterprise edition to use SSO setup.

### B.1: Nextcloud Hub as IDP

#### B.1.1. Configure Nextcloud
- [ ] In Nextcloud, install and enable `OIDC Identity Provider`(`oidc`) and `OpenID Connect user backend`(`user_oidc`) apps.
- [ ] Create a new user( with username, display name, password, and email)
- [ ] Run following command:
  - `php occ config:system:set user_oidc --type boolean --value="true" oidc_provider_bearer_validation`

>   - Note: This enables bearer token validation for `user_oidc`. Without it, login or connection may fail. This may also be missing during local setups.

Reviewer: still unclear that its required for local setup only

Author: I ahave done the changes there. Could you check if it is clear and easy to understand?

- [ ]  Go to `Administration > OpenID Connect` and enable `store login tokens` option.
- [ ] Go to `Administation > OpenID Connect Provider`
  - Click the button `+ Add client`:
  - Add a client name (not an identifier) such as `openproject`

>   - Add a redirect URL (<openproject_host>/auth/oidc-<idp-displayname-from-openproject>/callback)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add a redirect URL (<openproject_host>/auth/oidc-<idp_displayname_from_openproject>/callback)
```

>   - Choose Signing Algorithm option as `RS246`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Choose Signing Algorithm option as `RS256`.
```

  - Choose Client Type as `Confidential` and click on `Add` button.
  - After clicking `add` button, click on recently created client. 
  - Choose `Access Token Type` as `JWT Access Token (RFC9068)` and click on `save` button.
  - Go to `settings` section.
  - Set `Refresh Token Expire Time` to `Never`.
  - Save
  - Copy the Client ID and Client secret (you will need these later in OpenProject and integration_openproject).

####  B.1.2. Add Nextcloud IDP in OpenProject (Without project folder setup)
- [ ] In OpenProject, go to `Administration > Authentication > OpenID providers`
- [ ] Add a new custom OpenID provider:

>   - Display name: `nextcloud` (use this name as redirect URL in Nextcloud: <idp-displayname-from-openproject>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Display name: `nextcloud` (use this name as redirect URL in Nextcloud: <idp_displayname_from_openproject>)
```

Reviewer: this suggestion is missed

Author: updated ✅

- [ ] Run following command:

>   - `php occ config:system:set user_oidc --type boolean --value="true" oidc_provider_bearer_validation`

Reviewer: good to mention its needed for only local setup

Author: may be sometime missing in other setup also

Reviewer 2: best would be to explain why this command is needed in the first place and what it does

Author: added this:

```txt
- Note: This enables bearer token validation for `user_oidc`. Without it, login or connection may fail. This may also be missing during local setups.
```

- [ ]  Go to `Administration > OpenID Connect` and enable `store login tokens` option.
- [ ] Go to `Administation > OpenID Connect Provider`
  - Click the button `+ Add client`:
  - Add a client name (not an identifier) such as `openproject`

>   - Add a redirect URL (<openproject_host>/auth/oidc-<idp-displayname-from-OP>/callback)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Add a redirect URL (<openproject_host>/auth/oidc-<idp-displayname-from-openproject>/callback)
```

  - Choose Signing Algorithm option as `RS246`.
  - Choose Client Type as `Confidential` and click on `Add` button.
  - After clicking `add` button, click on recently created client. 
  - Choose `Access Token Type` as `JWT Access Token (RFC9068)` and click on `save` button.
  - Go to `settings` section.
  - Set `Refresh Token Expire Time` to `Never`.
  - Save
  - Copy the Client ID and Client secret (you will need these later in OpenProject and integration_openproject).

####  B.1.2. Add Nextcloud IDP in OpenProject (Without project folder setup)

> - [ ] In OpenProject, go to `Administration > Authentication > OpenID providers`

Reviewer: we need to add an Enterprise token before this step

Author: Done! I have mentioned it before starting the sso tests

- [ ] Add a new custom OpenID provider:
  - Display name: `nextcloud` (use this name as redirect URL in Nextcloud: <idp-displayname-from-OP>)
  - Discovery URL: `<nextcloud_instance_url>/index.php/.well-known/openid-configuration`
  - Client ID: Client ID copied earlier from Nextcloud
  - Client secret: Client secret copied earlier from Nextcloud

>   - Choose other option by default and click on `save`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Keep all other options as default and click on `save`
```

- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.3](#b13-setup-integration-without-project-folder-setup).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.1.4](#b14-login-to-openProject-using-nextcloud-user).
- [ ] In nextcloud, login as nextcloud-created user.
- [ ] Navigate to `Settings > OpenProject`.
- [ ] Should show user is connected as an OpenProject user.

#### B.1.6. Complete the common smoke tests
- [ ] Complete [smoke tests 1-7](#common-smoke-test-steps).

### B.2: External Provider
> Here, keycloak is an External Provider

#### B.2.1. Configure Keycloak
- [ ] Set up Keycloak using this guide: [Keycloak Setup](https://www.openproject-edge.com/docs/system-admin-guide/integrations/nextcloud/oidc-sso/#keycloak).

#### B.2.2. Configure Nextcloud
- [ ] In **nextcloud**, as an admin go to `Administration > OpenID Connect`.
- [ ] Enable `store login tokens` options.
- [ ] Register a new providers with the following data:
  - Identifier: `keycloak`
  - Client ID: nextcloud client id from keycloak
  - Client Secret: nextcloud client secret from keycloak
  - Discovery endpoint: `<keycloak_instance_url>/realms/<realm-name>/.well-known/openid-configuration` (for example realm name can be `opnc`)

>   - Scope: `openid email profile api_v3`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Scope: `openid profile email api_v3`
```

Author: why?

  - submit
- [ ] Login as keycloak-created user in `Nextcloud`.
- [ ] Login should be successful.
- [ ] Logout.

#### B.2.3. Add Keycloak IDP in OpenProject
- [ ] In `OpenProject`, as a user `admin`, go to `Administration > Authentication > OpenID providers`.
- [ ] Add a new custom OpenID provider:
  - Display name: `keycloak`
  - Discovery URL: `<keycloak_instance_url>/realms/<realm-name>/.well-known/openid-configuration`
  - Client ID: Client ID of openproject provided by keycloak in the <realm-name> realm.

>   - Client secret: Client secret of openproject from keycloak

Reviewer: Should we add a quick guide on how we can get the `Client ID` and `Client secret` from keycloak? Just a thought.

Author: added ✅

- [ ] Go to Administration > Files.
  - [ ] Create a file storage type `Nextcloud` by clicking the button `+ Storage` and choosing Nextcloud
  - [ ] Add name as `Nextcloud`.
  - [ ] Add Host as `<nextcloud-host>`
  - [ ] Set authentication method to `Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider`.
  - [ ] Then, select the option `Use access token obtained during user log in`.
  - [ ] Uncheck project folder (automatically managed folder).
  - [ ] Click on button `Finish setup`.
- [ ] Navigate to `Project settings > Files` of a project (for example, `Demo Project`) and add `Nextcloud` as a file storage.

> - [ ] If you are using [Docker setup](../../dev/), default `Keycloak` users already exist (`alice` and `brian`, password: `1234`), so you can skip the user-creation steps below and go directly to step [B.2.4](#b24-setup-integration-token-exchange-disabled-in-nextcloud).

Reviewer: I think this step should be before `[ ] Login as keycloak-created user in Nextcloud.` in `B.2.2`

- [ ] In Keycloak, go to the user management section. For example, if your realm name is `opnc`, navigate to: `opnc > Users`.
- [ ] Then create a user.
- [ ] In `OpenProject`, login as keycloak-created user.
- [ ] In `OpenProject`, log out, then log in as a user `admin`.
- [ ] As an `OpenProject` admin, add keycloak-created user as a member in one of the project (for example, `Demo Project`).

#### B.2.4. Setup integration (token exchange disabled) in Nextcloud

> - [ ] As a user `admin`, go to `Administration > OpenProject`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] As a user `admin`, go to `Administration > OpenProject` and add host as `<openproject-host>`.
```

Author: added ✅

- [ ] Under `Authentication Method`, select `Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider`.
- [ ] In `Authentication settings`, select `provider Type` as `Keycloak`.

> - [ ] Disable `token exchange`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Disable `token exchange` as well as `Automatically managed folders`.
```

#### B.2.5. Verify Connection in nextcloud
- [ ] First, complete steps **B.2.1** to **B.2.4**.
- [ ] In nextcloud, login as keycloak-created user.
- [ ] Navigate to `Settings > OpenProject`.
- [ ] Should show user is connected as an OpenProject user.

#### B.2.6. Complete the common smoke tests
- [ ] Complete [smoke tests 1-7](#common-smoke-test-steps).

#### B.2.7. Setup integration (token exchange enabled)
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.2.1](#b21-configure-keycloak).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.2.2](#b22-configure-nextcloud).
- [ ] Complete step [Test No B.2.3](#b23-Add-Keycloak-idp-in-openoroject).

> - [ ] Go to `Administration > OpenProject` in nextcloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] As a user `admin` go to `Administration > OpenProject` in nextcloud.
```

  - Identifier: `keycloak`
  - Client ID: nextcloud client id from keycloak
  - Client Secret: nextcloud client secret from keycloak
  - Discovery endpoint: `<keycloak_instance_url>/realms/<realm-name>/.well-known/openid-configuration` (for example realm name can be `opnc`)
  - Scope: `openid email profile api_v3`
  - submit

> - [ ] Login as keycloak-created user in `Nextcloud`.

Reviewer: it would be good to add link to the documentation where we can see the keycloak users credentials

Author: I don’t think there is any dedicated documentation for the user credentials.
In the Docker setup, a script automatically creates a user and sets the password, so we use that existing user. In other setups, you can simply create a new user manually and set the password yourself.

Docker setup password is set here:
https://github.com/nextcloud/integration_openproject/blob/65f7742ee58582d84ec7649e636a2d5ca8739b32/dev/keycloak/keycloak.sh#L64

Author: I made some changes there. Please take a look and let me know if it looks good or not.

Reviewer: > I don’t think there is any dedicated documentation for the user credentials. In the Docker setup, a script automatically creates a user and sets the password, so we use that existing user. In other setups, you can simply create a new user manually and set the password yourself.
> 
> Docker setup password is set here:
> 
> [integration_openproject/dev/keycloak/keycloak.sh](https://github.com/nextcloud/integration_openproject/blob/65f7742ee58582d84ec7649e636a2d5ca8739b32/dev/keycloak/keycloak.sh#L64)
> 
> Line 64 in [65f7742](/nextcloud/integration_openproject/commit/65f7742ee58582d84ec7649e636a2d5ca8739b32)
> 
>          "value": "1234",

will I or someone remember or where to look in the future?

Author: I added it. Could you check if it is clear and easy to understand?

- [ ] Login Should be successful
- [ ] Logout

#### B.2.3. Add Keycloak IDP in OpenProject
- [ ] As an user `admin`, go to `Administration > Authentication > OpenID providers`
- [ ] Add a new custom OpenID provider:
  - Display name: `keycloak`
  - Discovery URL: `<keycloak_instance_url>/realms/<realm-name>/.well-known/openid-configuration`

>   - Client ID: Client ID of openproject from keycloak

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Client ID: Client ID of openproject provided by keycloak in the <realm-name> realm.
```

  - Client secret: Client secret of openproject from keycloak

> - [ ] Navigate to `Project settings > Files` of a project (for example, `Demo Project`) and add `Nextcloud` as a file storage.

Reviewer: these steps are missing before the current step
- go to Administration > Files
- Create a file storage type Nextcloud by clicking the button + Storage and choosing Nextcloud
- Add name it as Nextcloud.
- Add Host as <nextcloud-host>
- Choose authentication Method option as Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider.
- Then, select the option Use access token obtained during user log in.
- Uncheck project folder (automatically managed folder).
- Click on button Finish setup.

Author: Added 👍🏻

- [ ] Login as keycloak-created user in `Openproject`.
- [ ] Log out, then Login as admin in `Openproject`.

> - [ ] As an `OpenProject` admin, add keycloak-created user as a member in one of the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] As an `OpenProject` admin, add keycloak-created user as a member in one of the project (for example, `Demo Project`).
```

  - Identifier: `keycloak`
  - Client ID: nextcloud client id from keycloak
  - Client Secret: nextcloud client secret from keycloak
  - Discovery endpoint: `<keycloak_instance_url>/realms/<realm-name>/.well-known/openid-configuration` (for example realm name can be `opnc`)
  - Scope: `openid email profile api_v3`
  - submit
- [ ] Login as keycloak-created user in `Nextcloud`.
- [ ] Login Should be successful
- [ ] Logout

#### B.2.3. Add Keycloak IDP in OpenProject
- [ ] In openproject as an user `admin`, go to `Administration > Authentication > OpenID providers`
- [ ] Add a new custom OpenID provider:
  - Display name: `keycloak`
  - Discovery URL: `<keycloak_instance_url>/realms/<realm-name>/.well-known/openid-configuration`
  - Client ID: Client ID of openproject provided by keycloak in the <realm-name> realm.
  - Client secret: Client secret of openproject from keycloak
- [ ] go to Administration > Files

>   - [ ] Create a file storage type Nextcloud by clicking the button `+ Storage` and choosing Nextcloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Create a file storage type `Nextcloud` by clicking the button `+ Storage` and choosing Nextcloud
```

>   - [ ] Add name as Nextcloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [ ] Add name as `Nextcloud`.
```

bash integration_oidc_setup.sh
```

- [ ] Upon success, try step [Test No B.2.8](#b28-verify-connection-in-nextcloud).
- [ ] Also, to set up the integration configuration with project folder setup, at first delete 'nextcloud' file storage from OpenProject.
- [ ] In nextcloud, delete the `OpenProject` user, group and team folder from the nextcloud (if they exist).
- [ ] Then, reset the Nextcloud config.
- [ ] Set environment `SETUP_PROJECT_FOLDER=true` and run the script.
- [ ] Run the script again after it is already setup (Should not give any error).

## Common Smoke Test Steps

> ### 1. Link/Unlink a work package for a file/folder in nextcloud

Reviewer: should we add a quick note saying explicitly these smoke tests cannot be performed by `admin` in `SSO setup`?

Reviewer: also the user should be added to `demo project` as member for `sso setup`

- [ ] Also, to set up the integration configuration with project folder setup, at first delete 'nextcloud' file storage from OpenProject.
- [ ] In nextcloud, delete the `OpenProject` user, group and team folder from the nextcloud (if they exist).
- [ ] Then, reset the Nextcloud config.
- [ ] Set environment `SETUP_PROJECT_FOLDER=true` and run the script.
- [ ] Run the script again after it is already setup (Should not give any error).

## Common Smoke Test Steps

### 1. Link/Unlink a work package for a file/folder in Openproject
- [ ] Select a file, navigate to sidebar `OpenProject` tab.

> - [ ] Search for any of the work packages in the `Demo Project`.

Author: OP

- [ ] Now as an `OpenProject` admin, assign any of the `Demo Project` work packages to the created `OpenProject` user.
- [ ] The `Nextcloud` user should receive a notification regarding the assignment.

#### 6. Setup and check project folder in Nextcloud (with project folder setup)

> - [ ] Enable `groupfolders` application in `Nextcloud`.

Reviewer: would be good to mention how to enable it in short

> - [ ] Enable `groupfolders` application in `Nextcloud`.

Reviewer: groupfolders or teamfolders?

> - [ ] Enable `Automatically managed folders` switch in admin setting and set project folder.

Reviewer: in both nextcloud and openproject

> - [ ] Application password should be generated.

Reviewer: Then copy and paste the generated application password from nextcloud to openproject

> - [ ] Verify that `OpenProject` user and group are created with user `OpenProject` as sub-admin of the group.

Reviewer: `OpenProject` user and `OpenProject` group

> - [ ] Verify that `OpenProject` user and group are created with user `OpenProject` as sub-admin of the group.

Reviewer: in nextcloud

Author: ```
#### 6. Setup and check project folder in Nextcloud (with project folder setup)
```

this step heading itself mentioned  `in nextcloud`. so, i don't think we need to again mention here again.

> - [ ] Verify that `OpenProjectNoAutomaticProjectFolders` group is also created with user `OpenProject` as sub-admin.

Reviewer: in nextcloud

Author: same comment

https://github.com/nextcloud/integration_openproject/pull/1011#discussion_r3159222506

> - [ ] Try deleting `OpenProject` user and group, those should not be deleted.

Reviewer: https://github.com/nextcloud/integration_openproject/pull/1011/changes#r3152586787

- [ ] Now as an `OpenProject` admin, assign any of the `Demo Project` work packages to the created `OpenProject` user.
- [ ] The `Nextcloud` user should receive a notification regarding the assignment.

### 6. Setup and check project folder in Nextcloud (with project folder setup)

> - [ ] Enable the Nextcloud `groupfolders` app (`Team folders`) in `Nextcloud`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] As a user `admin` enable the Nextcloud `groupfolders` app (`Team folders`) in `Nextcloud`.
```

- [ ] Enable `Automatically managed folders` switch in admin setting and set project folder.
- [ ] Application password should be generated (copy this password as this will be needed in the next step).
- [ ] Verify that `OpenProject` user and `OpenProject` group are created with user `OpenProject` as sub-admin of the group.

> - [ ] Verify that `OpenProjectNoAutomaticProjectFolders` group is also created with user `OpenProject` as sub-admin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Verify that `OpenProjectNoAutomaticProjectFolders` group is also created with user `OpenProject` as sub-admin.
- [ ] Navigate to `Administration settings > Team folders`
- [ ] Verify that folder named `OpenProject` is created with group named `OpenProject` and advanced permissions to user named `OpenProject` 
```

- [ ] Try deleting `OpenProject` user and `OpenProject` group, those should not be deleted.
- [ ] Try deleting `OpenProjectNoAutomaticProjectFolders` group, it should not be possible to delete.
- [ ] Test group management (as a user `OpenProject`):
  - Login as `OpenProject` user
  - Add a test user `user1` to the `OpenProject` group
  - Remove `user1` from the `OpenProject` group
  - Verify that `user1` is automatically moved to the `OpenProjectNoAutomaticProjectFolders` group

### 7. Setup and Check New folder with automatically managed permissions in OpenProject

> - [ ] In `OpenProject`, navigate to `Administration > Files > Nextcloud`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] In `OpenProject`, as a user `admin` navigate to `Administration > Files > Nextcloud`.
```

- [ ] On `Automatically managed folders` section, click on Edit.
- [ ] Enable the `Automatically managed folders` option.

> - [ ] Enter the application password generated from `Nextcloud` and click on `Finish setup`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Enter the application password generated from `Nextcloud` and click on `Finish setup`.
- [ ] Navigate to `Demo Project > Project Settings > Files`.
- [ ] Edit the existing storage named `Nextcloud` and select the `New folder with automatically managed permissions` 
```

Author: added ✅

> - [ ] Navigate to `Demo Project > Work Packages` and double click any one of the work packages available.

Reviewer: for `sso` setup, this action is not for `admin` to perform

- [ ] Uploaded file is linked to the work package in `OpenProject`.
- [ ] Also Navigate to `Nextcloud` and see in the `OpenProject` tab for file (local.txt), the work package should be linked.

### 4. Create a WorkPackage from Nextcloud

- [ ] In `Nextcloud`, select a file and open the sidebar `OpenProject` tab.
- [ ] Click `Create and link new work package`.
- [ ] Select `Demo Project`, fill up the modal form and create.
- [ ] Work package should be created and linked to the selected file.

### 5. Check notification in `OpenProject` widget in Nextcloud

> Make sure your `OpenProject` is running along with `worker` instance

- [ ] In `Nextcloud` dashboard, open `Customize` and enable `integration_openproject` to view notifications.
- [ ] Now as an `OpenProject` admin, assign any of the `Demo Project` work packages to the created `OpenProject` user.
- [ ] The `Nextcloud` user should receive a notification regarding the assignment.

### 6. Setup and check project folder in Nextcloud (with project folder setup)

- [ ] As a user `admin` enable the Nextcloud `groupfolders` app (`Team folders`) in `Nextcloud`.

> - [ ] Enable `Automatically managed folders` switch in admin setting and set project folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] Enable `Automatically managed folders` switch in `Administration settings -> OpenProject -> Edit project folders` and set project folder.
```

- [ ] Try deleting `OpenProject` user and `OpenProject` group, those should not be deleted.
- [ ] Try deleting `OpenProjectNoAutomaticProjectFolders` group, it should not be possible to delete.
- [ ] Test group management (as a user `OpenProject`):
  - Login as `OpenProject` user
  - Add a test user `user1` to the `OpenProject` group
  - Remove `user1` from the `OpenProject` group
  - Verify that `user1` is automatically moved to the `OpenProjectNoAutomaticProjectFolders` group

### 7. Setup and Check New folder with automatically managed permissions in OpenProject

- [ ] In `OpenProject`, as a user `admin` navigate to `Administration > Files > Nextcloud`.
- [ ] On `Automatically managed folders` section, click on Edit.
- [ ] Enable the `Automatically managed folders` option.
- [ ] Enter the application password generated from `Nextcloud` and click on `Finish setup`.
- [ ] Navigate to `Demo Project > Project settings > Files`.
- [ ] Edit the `Nextcloud` storage, choose `New folder with automatically managed permissions`, and click `Save`.

> - [ ] Navigate to `Demo Project > Work Packages` and double click any one of the work packages available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] As a created user, navigate to `Demo Project > Work Packages` and double click any one of the work packages available.
```

### 3. Direct upload file/folder from OpenProject to Nextcloud

- [ ] In `OpenProject`, navigate to `Demo Project > Work Packages` and double click any one of the work packages available.
- [ ] Navigate to `Files` tab, click `Upload files`, select available files from your local system (for example, local.txt) and upload choosing the upload location.
- [ ] Uploaded file is linked to the work package in `OpenProject`.
- [ ] Also Navigate to `Nextcloud` and see in the `OpenProject` tab for file (local.txt), the work package should be linked.

### 4. Create a WorkPackage from Nextcloud

- [ ] In `Nextcloud`, select a file and open the sidebar `OpenProject` tab.
- [ ] Click `Create and link new work package`.
- [ ] Select `Demo Project`, fill up the modal form and create.
- [ ] Work package should be created and linked to the selected file.

### 5. Check notification in `OpenProject` widget in Nextcloud

> Make sure your `OpenProject` is running along with `worker` instance
> Note: To see notifications on the Nextcloud dashboard, open `Customize` and enable `integration_openproject`.

> - [ ] Create a separate user in both `Nextcloud` as well as `OpenProject`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [ ] Connect `Nextcloud` user to `OpenProject` user and vice-versa (`OpenProject` user to `Nextcloud` user).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
